Many times user stories can be grouped or clustered together
since they have a very common theme or domain,
and we call these epics.
An epic is a big unit of work that has one common objective.
An epic is still a feature or a custom request or business requirement,
but at a higher, more abstract level.
Here's an example.
Earlier, we talked about a user story for a student to find,
select, and enroll in a course.
Well, there are dozens of user stories around student enrollment,
and hence, a good epic would be a more encompassing one called manage enrollment.
Now let's see a more detailed example.
Here's an example I'm calling manage enrollment.
This epic covers the viewpoints of students and administration.
As the term epic connotates,
an epic is a story with more context and embellishment.
Or another way to look at it would be to further refine the
epic with more context and description.
Every quarter,
the registrar prepares for the beginning of the next academic quarter.
Six weeks before the beginning of the next quarter,
classes are open so the students can, in fact,
enroll.
During this time students enroll, the cashier manages payments,
the enrollment supervisor audits enrollment activity,
and the registrar tracks the performance of cashier,
student services,
and enrollment operations through a variety of reports and tracking mechanisms.
So, as you can see, an epic usually takes a form of a narrative,
covering a broad set of related features.
Certainly, epics take much more than one sprint to complete.
They cover an extended period of time, of course.
Think of an epic of the summary of many user stories.
This helps you better understand the context of those user stories.
Now let's take this epic and break it down in just a
few user stories as an example.
For the epic manage enrollment,
let's illustrate just a few of its user stories
that would be within its context.
As a student, I can search for, find, and select classes so that I can enroll.
As a student,
I can view my currently enrolled classes so that I can drop a class.
As an administrator, I can open a class so that students can sign up and search.
As department staff,
I can view the class roster so that I can review class
enrollment attributes such as discounts,
dates, etc.
This is a real-world example.
As we work through with the product owners,
we actually subdivided the epics and then clustered the associated user stories.
It turned out that later in our project we broke down managed enrollment into
student enrollment and enrollment administration epics.
We even left a higher-level kind of super epic for
managed enrollment for context.
Now for a point of view.
Here's my point of view on product owners and backlogs.
I do want to emphasize the product owner may not have a
clue of just what a user story is, let alone an epic.
You may want to mentor and coach the product owner so
that they can write them better.
But in my experience, product owners are not always eager for this option.
You may need to decide as a member of the development team to rephrase
the product owner's terminology into user stories,
and then present them back to the product owner for
validation and potential clarifications.
For product owners that are not interested in writing their own user stories,
this option may be the best course of action for you.
Or, based on interviews and discussions with the product owner,
you write the user stories from the very beginning and then run them by the
product owner to ensure that they are correct and accurate.
Now backlogs evolve.
The earliest representation of the backlog may be a bit crude,
fuzzy, and not very well-understood set of requirements.
Then it evolves as the product owner and the team
move through the Agile process. Now let's check out some good traits of developer tasks.